---
title: A Complete Guidance for Getting Health Insurance in Switzerland
date: 2019-09-19 06:48:00 Z
---

Switzerland healthcare system is ranked as one of the best healthcare systems globally, the government of Switzerland requires all individuals residing in the country to have a basic health insurance. Throughout the globe, the healthcare system in Switzerland has a high class reputation. Any individual living or working in Switzerland is required to purchase a health insurance policy. Under compulsory healthcare policy in Switzerland, buying health insurance can become costly.

The cost of the insurance premium depends on the location where you live. The premium charges also depend on the policy and the policy provider. Basel, Zurich, and Geneva are some cities where premiums are charged higher. Depending on the location of the insured, some medical expenses are tax deductible. Across the country, if the medical cost of an individual exceeds 10% of its income, the individual is liable for tax deduction on health insurance premiums. Health insurance premiums may be deductible up to a certain amount for low income groups. Therefore it is important to ask for a tax confirmation by the insurance provider. The below mentioned guide will enable you to understand the health insurance system in Switzerland. It will also help in understanding the basic medical coverage required for health insurance. 

All individuals residing in Switzerland are free to choose whichever health insurance policy and provider they want from the list of government-authorised companies. The Swiss government ensures that companies don’t take advantage of customers by regulating insurance through the Swiss Federal Law on Health Insurance (LaMal). The basic requirement for a health insurance policy is that it must cover treatment in the case of illness, accidents, and pregnancy. It must also cover the stay in hospital, home visits by doctors, nurses or specialists. Coverage should also extend to prescribed services, like physiotherapy, nursing care, occupational therapy and nutritional counseling. 

Switzerland ensures proper healthcare facilities for all individuals. The government mandates that every individual intending to reside in the country must be covered by health insurance within three months of their arrival in the country. If an immigrant fails to sign up for health insurance, as a penalty the government may charge a higher premium than the original cost. It is easy to sign up for a health insurance by [comparing](https://www.gute-krankenkasse.ch/) and selecting an insurance provider online or by visiting their office. For enrollment, the company gives an application form that has to be filled by the insured. After the documentation, depending on the policy and the provider, a monthly premium is charged to the insured. Further the health insurance provider gives a health insurance card which works as a pass for every medical visit or treatment. This card should be accompanied by an insured for medical claims. Furthermore, there are various insurance providers available in Switzerland for an individual to choose from. Some of the popular Swiss health insurance providers are Swica, Assura, and Agrisano. 

With world-class universal healthcare, Switzerland is surely a great choice if considering for relocation abroad. These were some of the important guidance required to be known about the Swiss healthcare system.
